## Introduction

Over the course of the previous two episodes we’ve moved from the self-portraiture of Graham Macindoe, to the participatory practice of Jeffery Stockbridge. We’ve been asked to consider the notion of the functional addict by Susan Stellin and have been challenged on both that, and our very concept of addiction itself by Dr Carl Hart.
 
In this, the final of our triptych, we return to these themes and challenge them again. We also have the opportunity to dig deeper into the something that Gemma Rose Turnbull touched on in episode two when she reminded us of how the context of where we come across an image will affect our interpretation of it.
 
Nina Berman first photographed Kim in London back in 1990 and over the proceeding twenty five years continued to do so. As the relationships and the project have evolved so has its ownership, culminating in the publication of the multiple award winning An Autobiography Of Miss Wish in 2017. In this interview Nina challenges some of the tropes surrounding addiction and forces us to question our own storytelling motives. Similarly, Professor Mark Kleiman questions, with market forces such as they are, whether we can afford to live without addiction.  Stephen Mayes challenges us on another of our core tenets when he considers how audiences may be affected positively, even by “flawed journalism”. He goes on to ask what both types of practice come tell us about the nature of truth in journalism and how, historically, we have come to understand it.

## Biographies

@[bio](Mark Kleiman|CDN_URL/images/Mark_Kleiman.jpg|Mark A.R. Kleiman is a Professor of Public Policy at New York University, where he directs the Crime and Justice Program. Previously, he taught at UCLA and Harvard, his alma mater, and served as director of the Office of Policy and Management Analysis at the U.S. Department of Justice. Kleiman has authored five books on drug and crime policy, is a member of the Committee on Law and Justice of the United States National Research Council, and is co-editor of the Journal of Drug Policy Analysis.|http://www.samefacts.com/)

@[bio](Nina Berman|CDN_URL/images/ninaberman.jpg|Nina is a documentary photographer, author and educator. Much of her photographic work focuses upon the American political and social landscape, including the militarization of American life and the dialogue around war, patriotism and sacrifice. Berman is the author of two monographs: Purple Hearts – Back From Iraq, and Homeland. Her photographs and videos have been exhibited in more than one hundred solo and group exhibitions in the USA, Europe and the UK including the Brooklyn Museum, Dublin Contemporary 2011 and the 2010 Whitney Museum Biennial. She is the recipient of a New York Foundation for the Arts grant, several photojournalism awards, including two World Press Photo Foundation awards, (one of which was for her iconic portrait “Marine Wedding” of Tyler Ziegel, a wounded Marine, and his bride), and a Hasselblad award. She is a former teacher at the International Center of Photography in New York City and has lectured at universities and conferences throughout the USA and in Europe.In 2005, Berman received the first Open Society Institute documentary distribution grantand traveled to high schools around the USA with Army veteran Robert Acosta presenting and exhibiting the Purple Hearts project. Her work with high school students continued in 2010 in collaboration with the Whitney Museum of American Art as an artist in residence with the museum’s Youth Insights program. In 2011, Berman developed a high school art curriculum with the Whitney Museum of American Artbased on her images of wounded American veterans from the Iraq War and her Homeland series. In 2009, Berman became a member of the NOOR photo agency based in Amsterdam. In 2012, she became an associate professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. She received an A.B. from the University of Chicago and a M.S.from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.|http://www.ninaberman.com/)

@[bio](Kimberly Wish|default|Awaiting bio...)

@[bio](Carl Hart|CDN_URL/images/carl_hart.jpg|Carl Hart is the Chair of the Department of Psychology at Columbia University. He is also the Dirk Ziff Professorof Psychology in the Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry. Prof. Hart has published nearly 100 scientificarticles in the area of neuropsychopharmacology and is co-author of the textbook Drugs, Society and Human Behavior (with Charles Ksir). His most recent book,“High Price: A Neuroscientist’s Journey of Self-Discovery That Challenges Everything You Know About Drugs and Society,” was the 2014 winner of the PEN/E.O. Wilson Literary Science Writing Award. Prof. Hart has also been presented with numerous other awards and has appeared on multiple podcasts, radio and television shows. His essays have been published in several popular publications including The New York Times, Scientific American, The Nation, Ebony, and O Globo (Brazil’s leading newspaper). The city of Miami issued a proclamation declaring February 1, 2016 “Dr. Carl Hart Day.”|http://drcarlhart.com)

@[bio](Stephen Mayes|CDN_URL/images/stephen_mayes.jpg|Stephen Mayes is Executive Director of the Tim Hetherington Trust.  Across twenty-five years he has managed the work and careers of top-level photographers and artists in the diverse areas of art, fashion, photojournalism and commercial photography.  Stephen was Creative Director of eyestorm.com, working with artists such as Damien Hirst, Ed Ruscha, Richard Misrach. As Director of the Image Archive with Art + Commerce, he represented the archives of Robert Mapplethorpe, Steven Meisel, David LaChapelle and others. Stephen was part of the founding management team of Getty Images and his work as SVP and Group Creative Director helped to launch the company as the world’s commercially most successful image supplier. He has deep experience in world-shaping photojournalism as Director of Network Photographers in London and, most recently, as CEO of VII in New York, both high-profile co-operatives of leading photojournalists. From 2004 to 2012 he took an annual assignment as Secretary to the World Press Photo competition in Amsterdam.|http://stephenmayes.co)
