---
published: true
content_type: content
optional: false
expectsubmission: false
title: Introduction
description: >-
  Photographer Jeffrey Stockbridge discusses photography with others @[bio](Carl Hart|https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/13/Carl_Hart_%2818210024296%29.jpg/220px-Carl_Hart_%2818210024296%29.jpg|Carl Hart is the Chair of the Department of Psychology at Columbia University. He is also the Dirk Ziff Professorof Psychology in the Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry. Prof. Hart has published nearly 100 scientificarticles in the area of neuropsychopharmacology and is co-author of the textbook Drugs, Society and Human Behavior (with Charles Ksir).”|http://drcarlhart.com)
---
## Kensington blues

### TODO
A description of the 'Kensington blues' class and how it fits into the 'Depictions of Addiction' course.

@[bio](Carl Hart|https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/1/13/Carl_Hart_%2818210024296%29.jpg/220px-Carl_Hart_%2818210024296%29.jpg|Carl Hart is the Chair of the Department of Psychology at Columbia University. He is also the Dirk Ziff Professorof Psychology in the Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry. Prof. Hart has published nearly 100 scientificarticles in the area of neuropsychopharmacology and is co-author of the textbook Drugs, Society and Human Behavior (with Charles Ksir). His most recent book,“High Price: A Neuroscientist’s Journey of Self-Discovery That Challenges Everything You Know About Drugs and Society,” was the 2014 winner of the PEN/E.O. Wilson Literary Science Writing Award. Prof. Hart has also been presented with numerous other awards and has appeared on multiple podcasts, radio and television shows. His essays have been published in several popular publications including The New York Times, Scientific American, The Nation, Ebony, and O Globo (Brazil’s leading newspaper). The city of Miami issued a proclamation declaring February 1, 2016 “Dr. Carl Hart Day.”|http://drcarlhart.com)

@[bio](Stephen Mayes|https://photos-1.dropbox.com/t/2/AAAp8uyhszm8RnA3fE0OsAWPN8p8BRp_lDVTomwh3J2AWA/12/356966962/jpeg/32x32/1/_/1/2/Copy%20of%20%C2%A9%20Trea%20van%20Drunen.jpg/EKfK1KwFGI8-IAcoBw/kLpqL_pRvLCToQqXiKQgR0t1-OK33LRpC1VaWVB6l84?size=2048x1536&size_mode=3|Stephen Mayes is Executive Director of the Tim Hetherington Trust.  Across twenty-five years he has managed the work and careers of top-level photographers and artists in the diverse areas of art, fashion, photojournalism and commercial photography.  Stephen was Creative Director of eyestorm.com, working with artists such as Damien Hirst, Ed Ruscha, Richard Misrach. As Director of the Image Archive with Art + Commerce, he represented the archives of Robert Mapplethorpe, Steven Meisel, David LaChapelle and others. Stephen was part of the founding management team of Getty Images and his work as SVP and Group Creative Director helped to launch the company as the world’s commercially most successful image supplier. He has deep experience in world-shaping photojournalism as Director of Network Photographers in London and, most recently, as CEO of VII in New York, both high-profile co-operatives of leading photojournalists. From 2004 to 2012 he took an annual assignment as Secretary to the World Press Photo competition in Amsterdam.|http://stephenmayes.co)

### Jeffrey Stockbridge
Graduated from Drexel University with a BS in Photography in 2005. His photographs have been included in recent exhibitions at The National Portrait Gallery London, The Philadelphia Museum of Art, The Delaware Art Museum, The Delaware Center for Contemporary Arts, The Houston Center for Photography, The Wapping Project Bankside and The Print Center. Stockbridge’s current series Kensington Blues, was accepted into Review Santa Fe and awarded a Critical Mass Top 50 Winner by Photo Lucida in 2014. In 2010, Stockbridge was nominated for the Taylor-Wessing Photographic Portrait Prize and he was recently shortlisted for both the Lange-Taylor Prize and the Center For Documentary Studies First Book Prize. Stockbridge is a recipient of a Pennsylvania Council on the Arts Grant, an Independence Foundation Fellowship and a CFEVA Fellowship. His work has been featured in publications such as The NY Times Magazine, The Telegraph UK, Time Magazine Light Box, Vignette Magazine, Feature Shoot, and The Rust Belt Rising Almanac. Stockbridge lives and works in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

### Krista
Insert bio here