## Introduction

In this, the second of three episodes, new participants revisit some of the themes of episode one and their alternate perspectives enable us to build on those discussions. We move from the self-portraiture of Graham Macindoe, to the participatory practices of Jeffery Stockbridge and his Kensington Blues project.
The images for this ten year plus project always begin with a conversation and often (not always) lead to Jeffery making a portrait and recording an interview. The subject is then invited to further participate in the process by submitting more of their own content. The subject in this episode is Krista whom Jeffery first photographed in 2009. She reflects on her experiences of the project as well as raising some of the concerns of others who’ve been involved. Photographer and expert in participatory practices Gemma Rose Turnbull considers how audiences are affected depending on how they come across the work, and Dr Karl Hart of Columbia University challenges some of our previously held assumptions, most notably the notion of the functional addict and the even the very concept of addiction itself.  

## Biographies

@[bio](Jeffrey Stockbridge|default|Graduated from Drexel University with a BS in Photography in 2005. His photographs have been included in recent exhibitions at The National Portrait Gallery London, The Philadelphia Museum of Art, The Delaware Art Museum, The Delaware Center for Contemporary Arts, The Houston Center for Photography, The Wapping Project Bankside and The Print Center. Stockbridge’s current series Kensington Blues, was accepted into Review Santa Fe and awarded a Critical Mass Top 50 Winner by Photo Lucida in 2014. In 2010, Stockbridge was nominated for the Taylor-Wessing Photographic Portrait Prize and he was recently shortlisted for both the Lange-Taylor Prize and the Center For Documentary Studies First Book Prize. Stockbridge is a recipient of a Pennsylvania Council on the Arts Grant, an Independence Foundation Fellowship and a CFEVA Fellowship. His work has been featured in publications such as The NY Times Magazine, The Telegraph UK, Time Magazine Light Box, Vignette Magazine, Feature Shoot, and The Rust Belt Rising Almanac. Stockbridge lives and works in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.|http://www.jeffreystockbridge.com/)

@[bio](Gemma-Rose Turnbull|CDN_URL/images/gemma.png|Gemma-Rose Turnbull is an Australian artist, writer, Senior Lecturer in photography at Coventry University, and the joint Course Director of the MA Photography and Collaboration with Anthony Luvera. Gemma’s research interests lie with the ways in which photographers integrate innovative co-productive methodologies into their practice––particularly when authorship structures are revised so people who may have previously been ‘subjects’ of documentary texts become co-creators. She has collaborated with street-based sex workers, elderly people who have suffered from abuse, and children. She is a PhD candidate at the University of Queensland, was a Scholar in Residence in the Art and Social Practice MFA program at Portland State University 2013-2014, the inaugural writer in residence at Carville Annex Press in 2015, and one of the Taking Part residents at Photofusion in Brixton, London in 2017. Gemma writes about her research, and the intersection of photography and socially engaged art practices at Photography as a Social Practice, a site built in collaboration with colleagues Eliza Gregory, Mark Strandquist and Pete Brook. She was the editor of the Open Engagement Blog Project which became the first edition published by OE In Print: The Questions We Ask Together.|http://www.gemmarose.com.au/)

@[bio](Krista|default|Krista is a Kensington, Philadelphia resident and long-time collaborator with Jeffery. She is currently studying veterinary tech.)

@[bio](Carl Hart|CDN_URL/images/carl_hart.jpg|Carl Hart is the Chair of the Department of Psychology at Columbia University. He is also the Dirk Ziff Professorof Psychology in the Departments of Psychology and Psychiatry. Prof. Hart has published nearly 100 scientificarticles in the area of neuropsychopharmacology and is co-author of the textbook Drugs, Society and Human Behavior (with Charles Ksir). His most recent book,“High Price: A Neuroscientist’s Journey of Self-Discovery That Challenges Everything You Know About Drugs and Society,” was the 2014 winner of the PEN/E.O. Wilson Literary Science Writing Award. Prof. Hart has also been presented with numerous other awards and has appeared on multiple podcasts, radio and television shows. His essays have been published in several popular publications including The New York Times, Scientific American, The Nation, Ebony, and O Globo (Brazil’s leading newspaper). The city of Miami issued a proclamation declaring February 1, 2016 “Dr. Carl Hart Day.”|http://drcarlhart.com)

## Further Reading:
 
[People Are Dying Because of Ignorance, not Because of Opioids.](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/people-are-dying-because-of-ignorance-not-because-of-opioids/) Hart CL, Scientific American, November, 2017.

[Opioids aren't the problem.](https://tonic.vice.com/en_us/article/opioids-arent-the-problem) Hart CL, Vice: Tonic, November 17, 2016.
 
[Photography as a Social Practice: An archive of research and dialogue around socially engaged photography.](http://www.asocialpractice.com/)
